---
layout: post
title: "Prep Work - Week 3"
date: 2015-05-14
categories: non-technical omaha-code-school
---

Overall, I'm feeling tired! It's been a lot of work trying to be fully invested in learning the ins and outs of how the code works while doing the daily everything else.  I'm going to be very happy when school starts so I can purely focus on coding alone without any distractions! Plus, I know with that much dedicated time, I'll really improve my skills.  I can already see how I've improved so far, and that's only working on it nights and weekends.

I've realized as I've gone through some more of the practice problems that my feelings have changed like a roller-coaster.  I was frustrated on a problem sometime during the past few weeks and realized I had spent an hour trying to figure out the solution!  _Holy cow_ - so long!  Once I figured it out, it was an awesome feeling, and I thought to myself, okay, no more wasting time like that on one problem. Oh, how that was definitely not true.  I easily spent three-days worth of work on one problem later that same week! That's just how it goes, I guess. It's interesting because, while frustrating at times, I'm still very compelled to figure out the solution.  Why doesn't it work? How can I make it work? What if I tried x? I'm still _interested_ (even when it seems daunting and I humbly realize how little knowledge I have). I keep working on it.

The downside to that is that sometimes I don't have the time I would like to get through everything.  Prep Work - Week 2, I had to skip the last 3 or 4 problems and start moving on to Week 3's work, just because I was running out of time.  As Week 3 closes, I still have a handful of questions that I haven't had the time to go through yet. While I've been able to get the turn-in projects done, I'm not quite able to get through all the material.  That's horrible for a perfectionist like myself :)  I'm hoping to have a bit of time to review everything I've been learning and perhaps go back through the problems I've turned away before I start the course - only a few short weeks!

Anyway, point is, I'm still trucking.  I'm still enjoying it. I'm excited for class to start!
