---
layout: post
title: "Accepted into Omaha Code School!"
date: 2015-04-20
categories: non-technical omaha-code-school
---
Friday, I found out that I was officially going to Omaha Code School!  I had been accepted a week ago, but hadn't made a finalized decision yet, due to waiting on word back from the company I was working for.  So, Friday morning when I received an email telling me that only one spot remained in the class, I decided to leap on it, with or without my company's backing. I sent in the deposit, and was accepted!

This left me with a few mixed feelings.  Primarily excitement, but also nervousness.  It all seems a bit daunting, and the thought of going through this all at such an intense pace makes me a bit apprehensive.  I definitely want to get as much out of this as I can and I don't want to fail.  It's a ton of information to process, and even more - be successful at.  Really though, I think the intimidation stems from the fact that I have NO idea what I'm doing yet!  In the interview alone, we had to do a simple coding challenge on the spot. It made me totally scared!  But, I was able to pass that, right?  And now I'm on a path to learn all these things that I'm clueless on.  I'm ultimately left feeling more excited than anything!

Time to start the prep work. Four weeks of learning new information before the school starts. Here's the breakdown:

- Week 1: Basics of output, documentation, input and variables, and simple data manipulation
- Week 2: Conditionals and Booleans, and Loops
- Week 3: Array basics, and Hashes
- Week 4: Methods, Objects and Classes, Blocks, and more OOP

I'm not even sure what all of these things mean, but I guess that'll change soon.
