---
layout: post
title: "CSS and JavaScript - Halfway through OCS"
date: 2015-07-10
categories: non-technical omaha-code-school
---
We're halfway through Omaha Code School and I feel so accomplished! I think back to where I was and I feel awesome about how far I've come in this amount of time. I also have a bit of sadness that it's _already_ half done. It feels like the days have been incredibly long, as I'm sucked into a difficult problem, but at the same time, they've gone by extremely quick. I'm a little nervous for the day when I'll be out on my own and trying to solve problems, but I feel like I've come a long way and I still have a long ways to go.

The past few couple of weeks have been difficult from a skills perspective. We spent a fairly solid week covering CSS. One pretty awesome thing we did was re-create the front-end work of an excellent looking [website][barcamp]. We eased into it, which was necessary because I have had _zero_ experience with it before (much like all of this!). After some work on smaller projects though, I was able to create two versions of the website: one with nearly zero layers, and the other with several layers to position correctly responsively.

Now, this was quite the challenge for me at first. The first day or two of working with CSS was quite difficult in trying to figure out the processes of how to manipulate each element to look exactly like the design. After some fiddling, I finally started to get the hang of how it works, and generally what needed to be manipulated. Much of this was trial and error. Scratch that - nearly all of it was trial and error. CSS seemed to me to be a touch difficult to really understand well because there isn't going to be an error code to tell me when I'm doing something incorrectly. Plus, there's no way to just _know_ exactly how many pixels of margin give the correct effect. So, much of my work was done by opening up the code panel and testing different stylings until one, small element looked the way it was intended. Then onto the next.

This was at times quite tedious, just trying to move something a touch this way, or get the size of an object just a hair smaller, or whatever the case may have been. Sumeet told us that working with CSS was really more of a mastery you gain with experience, and I could see where that would be the case. Front-end developers who work with that stuff all the time probably have great intuition on where to start styles and probably know a ton of great tricks. By the end of the week, I could feel myself getting better with it, and I know some practice would improve it even more.

So, last week was mainly CSS-focused, and this week we have been focused on JavaScript. Now there's a crazy switch up. I had to admit that going back to a program with logic and fairly strict rules felt pretty nice after CSS, which seemed slightly unorganized. So, I was excited about JavaScript and to see what it was really all about.

We started off slowly again, learning some of the basics of the language until we had a decent grasp on it. From there, a ton of exercises and practice problems were put into place for us to really solidify our knowledge with it. I'm not going to lie, it felt a bit steep for me at first. This is really the second full-on language we've learned and tried to do anything with. I was feeling pretty down on myself for not catching on as quickly as I thought I should have. Admittedly, I couldn't imagine learning it at all on my own, let alone getting some amount of decent familiarity with it in such a short amount of time. But regardless, I don't like not knowing the ins and outs of what I'm working with - it's been a lot of Googling!

It's been fairly frustrating for me this week trying to get a grasp on things. Particularly when we had to integrate it with all of the other things we've learned thus far. Specifically, getting it to work with Ruby, which works with a database, and getting it to manipulate CSS as well, all organized in Sinatra. Yikes. That's a lot to keep track of, and I still haven't quite gotten it all figured out. It's a good puzzle; I just wish I could solve it, ha! I have faith that I'll get there.

Anyway, the past few weeks have been intense, but I've loved getting to learn all of these new things that I had no idea I was capable of. Though I struggled through CSS, it felt pretty awesome to re-create that beautiful website! I couldn't believe that I could do something like that. Learning JavaScript has been great too because it has a ton of additional functionality that opens up things I've seen on the web, but had no idea how they've worked. I know it's difficult right now, but I'm pretty sure it's supposed to be. Nobody (I'm _pretty_ sure) can soak it all in and just run with it that quickly. I know I'll get better with practice and I'm just excited to keep working on it.

[barcamp]: http://barcampomaha.org/
