---
layout: post
title: "My First Interview"
date: 2015-08-16
categories: non-technical omaha-code-school
---
I can't believe I have _one week_ of school left!!! This is only made more real by the fact that I had my first developer interview today!

Coming from a data analyst background, I've had some experience in having to speak to some technical concepts before. This has almost always gone horribly for me. I am unsure why, but I get this weird sort of complex when I have to speak to technical concepts to someone that I know is judging my abilities. I always feel inadequate, like I'll never be able to explain it well. It's also always made worse when I'm speaking to a male too, for some reason. I'm totally lost as to why that is, but it always makes me feel small and like I won't have anything good to say. Now this is odd to me, considering that I have some fairly  extensive public speaking skills and I've done plenty of technical presentations before. Those are a piece of cake. But the interviews, oh no. For some reason (and I might be able to pin it down to one particular very bad interview a few years ago), I just have a sort of mental block when it comes to answering technical questions. It's a difficult obstacle to overcome.

But, I have to move past that feeling (imposter feeling, perhaps?) and demonstrate confidence in all the things I've been working on! I have come a _long_ way and I'm proud of that. Today's interview went better than I thought, despite all the anxiety leading into it. _An interview on a Sunday evening?_, you might be wondering. Yes, it was. Interesting enough, (though it shouldn't be shocking that the tech industry has odd, new interviewing techniques), I did a "one-way" interview at my own pace. This involved going to a link that the recruiter sent to me and recording answers to a pre-defined set of questions. This interview process was nice, and odd in some ways. It definitely took some of my anxiety away (minus having to watch my responses after each recording - blargh) and gave me time to really think through what I wanted to say. I could also do it on my own time with sweatpants on - a definite bonus.

As for the interview itself, it's hard to determine exactly how well it went given there was no direct feedback or facial expressions. It was almost more like taking a test, where there were certainly correct answers and wrong ones. Many of the questions I answered were _super jargon-y_, leaving me feel a little lost at times. For example, what does polymorphism mean? While I know the concept and what it means to object-oriented programming, I wasn't familiar with that specific term. Or, several questions were specific to one programming language that I happened to be unfamiliar with (StringBinder? TryCatch?), but conceptually I'm sure I could speak to. So, I did my best and it was a good experience to go through, but I'm not sure this one will be the winner that pans out in the end. Oh well.

I've got one week left of school and I'm excited to see how it all goes. I spent the entire last week learning AngularJS (geez, that's a bit of a beastly subject), and doing a ton of reading on it's concepts. I've been having a lot of fun learning it and it seems like it'll be an awesome asset. I'm impressed with how powerful it is on it's own, and even more so when it's integrated in with Rails. So, this upcoming week (the last week :'( ) is more development in AngularJS, and more looking forward to what lies beyond OCS. It's a bit of a daunting thought, but I'm sure it'll go well. I think the key point will be striking a balance between knowing my limits and capabilities, and also having the confidence to adequately showcase it. Easier said than done.
