---
layout: post
title: "The Monday After Graduation"
date: 2015-08-24
categories: non-technical omaha-code-school
---
Friday's graduation was awesome! We spent the day touring some local businesses here in Omaha so we could meet their teams a bit and hear about their development processes. We went to three places, which covered a great spectrum of size and purpose. The first of those was [Agape Red][agape]. This is a small, 16-person consulting company that creates websites. They were incredibly friendly and had a few inspiring speakers talk to us about their experiences and advice. The next place we went was to [Flywheel][flywheel], a slightly larger 27-person company that focuses on hosting Wordpress sites and creating support software to go with it. They had a great panel comprised of [Omaha Code School][ocs] students and an [Interface School][interface] student that they had hired over the last year. It was a great perspective on what it's like to work for their company after going through a school and switching careers. Finally, we went to [Gallup][gallup], a larger corporation (around 700 people in Omaha), well-known for their national surveys. This was an interesting look into more of a corporate side of development, rather than a start-up perspective. They work with larger enterprise systems and develop in Java.  Seeing all of these perspectives was fantastic and helped me to hone in a bit more on what I'm looking to get out of a company.

The graduation ceremony itself was beautiful. Sumeet, ever thoughtful that he is, had incredibly kind words about each of the students in class. He spoke to one or two strengths of each student before calling the student up to receive a lovely laser-etched pine certificate. It was extremely thoughtful for him to do. Friends and family were all gathered around to hear these words and were able to get a glimpse of understanding into how much work we've been doing these past few months. The ceremony really gave us the chance to step back and reflect on how far we've come. It all of a sudden felt very sad and nostalgic that it was all over.

So, the Monday after graduation.
Today, I had two interviews. I can't say either one of them felt like the "perfect" fit, but they were both great for perspective and interview practice. The first one was with one gentleman whose sole purpose was to see if I was a cultural "fit" for their company. The questions were not the least bit technical, and even if there was a technical lean to the question, it seems like I would have been better off answering with something "hip" or "quirky". It was a very trendy place looking a personality to fit with their team. I get that. I'm just not sure it was really for me and it felt really odd to try to sell them on my personality or how hipster I could be. I did get some good insights on their company, though, and have a better understanding of their internal onboarding processes.

The second interview took place this afternoon. It was much more corporate feeling than the first one, but still claimed to be a hip start-up. This felt more like how I'd expect an interview to go. We talked about my interests in programming and what sorts of projects I worked on. What was a specific feature I implemented? What role on a team did I tend to gravitate towards? That sort of thing. It went fairly smooth and we had some great discussion on what their company goals are. Unfortunately, they said they're not really hiring anyone right now anyway. They said perhaps I could do some contract work in the future with them, if the opportunity arose, but that they were not in a position to bring on another person full-time.

So, the end result of the day is probably nil. It's really too bad, but at least I got some practice talking to different kinds of companies. The first one sounds so alluring and fun to work at, which is an ideal switch from my bureaucratic past. I have a slight concern on how much emphasis they place on the brand of their employees as people, though, rather than the high quality work someone can deliver. The second company also seemed alright, though slightly still bureaucratic and less flashy than some other companies. The experience would be great though and I would get to do full-stack work.

Wherever I land, I'll be happy to get some practical experience on real projects. I'm looking forward to truly being part of a team and growing with a company. Ideally, I'd be at a place surrounded by passionate people who love their jobs and make work fun every day. Realistically, anywhere I go I know I'll get more experience than I have now and will continue to grow my skill set. It feels like I'm flying off the edge of a cliff and looking for somewhere to land. I just hope it's in a role where I can keep all of this awesome momentum from Code School rolling!

[agape]: http://www.agapered.com/
[flywheel]: https://getflywheel.com/
[ocs]: http://omahacodeschool.com/
[interface]: https://interfaceschool.com/
[gallup]: http://www.gallup.com/home.aspx
